This file contains system-dependent notes on Idol.  Compiling idolboot
for your system requires a command of the form
	icont -Sr1000 -SF30 -Si1000 idolboot system
where system is the name of your system (so far amiga, mpw, msdos,
mvs, os2, unix, or vms).

UNIX

If you are running UNIX, count yourself lucky!  The Idol distribution
comes with a Makefile which ought to take care of things for you.

MSDOS

Due to memory limitations, Idol for MS-DOS Icon does not use the system()
function.  Instead, it generates a batch file, idolt.bat, containing the
sequence of commands required to finish the translation and linking of
the output into executable icode.  The batch file idol.bat runs idol
and then calls idolt for you; it should suffice in ordinary situations.
It is invoked as described in the man page and reference manual, e.g.
	C> idol idol msdos
The file install.bat performs the initial bootstrap translation of idol.
Note that the translation scripts cannot automatically remove .icn files,
so you may have to remove them manually if your disk space is precious.

VMS

Idol compiles and runs under VMS Icon version 7.0, but its a little
klunky; idol may fail to execute icont, or icont may fail to execute
ilink (under version 7.0).  Unfortunately I do not have access
to a VMS machine running a current version of Icon.  Note that there
are two DCL scripts in the distribution: vms.com is used by Idol
internally, while vmsidol.com is a convenience script if icont fails
on your system when invoked from inside Idol.  You are encouraged to
rename vmsidol.com to idol.com; it is not named idol.com to avoid
a nasty situation for MS-DOS users where .com files are assumed to
be binary executables!  Remember when specifying options to either idol
or icont one must put quotes around the argument in order for VMS to
leave it alone!

OS/2

Cheyenne Wills has provided us all with an OS/2 system file!
Although problems should be reported to me, the credit is all his.

MPW

Charles Lakos has provided a system file for Icon running under the
Macintosh Programmer's Workshop.  Icon source for class X is generated
as C_X.icn.  After the Idol translation phase, the commands  for the
Icon translation have been written to the MPW Worksheet.  They can 
simply be selected and run.  Thanks Charles!

AMIGA

Idol runs fairly comfortably on Version 8 of Amiga Icon (it won't work
with Version 7.5 of Amiga Icon).

MVS

Alan Beale has ported Idol to IBM mainframes running MVS.  This was a
bigger job than most ports!  Thanks Alan.

OTHERS

Porting idol consists of writing a new system.icn file for your system.
Take a look at unix.icn, vms.icn, os2.icn, mpw.icn, and msdos.icn.
