stay in line. stay in step. people are afraid of someone who is not
in step with them. it makes them look foolish t' themselves for being
in step.  it might even cross their mind that they themselves are in
the wrong step. do not run nor cross the red line. if you go too far
out in any direction, they will lose sight of you. they'll feel
threatened. thinking that they are not a part of something they saw
go past them, they'll feel something's going on up there that they
don't know of. revenge will set in. they will start thinking of how
t' get rid of you. act mannerly towards them. if you don't, they will
take it personal. as you come directly in contact face t' face, do not
make it a secret of how much you need them. if they sense that you have
no need for them, the first thing they will do is try t' make you need
them. if this doesn't work, they will tell you of how much they don't
need you. if you do not show any sadness at a remark such as this, they
will immediately tell other people of how much they don't need you.
your name will begin to come up in circles where people gather to tell
about all the people they don't need. you will begin t' get famous this
way. this, though, will only get the people who you don't need in the
first place all the more madder. you will become a whole topic of
conversation. needless t' say, these people who don't need you will
start hating themselves for needing t' talk about you. then you yourself
will start hating yourself for causing so much hate. as you can see, it
will all end in one great gunburst.

never trust a cop in a raincoat. when asked t' define yourself exactly,
say you are an exact mathematician. do not say or do anything that he
who standing in front of you watching cannot understand, he will feel
you know something he doesn't. he will take it as a serious blow. he will
react with blinding speed and write your name down. talk on his terms.
if his terms are old-fashioned an' you've passed that stage all the more
easier t' get back there. say what he can understand clearly. say it simple
t' keep your tongue out of your cheek. after he hears you, he can label you
good or bad. anyone will do. t' some people, there is only good an' bad.
in any case, it will make him feel somewhat important. it is better to stay
away from these people.

be careful of enthusiasm...it is all temporary and don't let it sway you.
when asked if you go t' church, always answer yes, never look at your shoes.
when asked what you think of gene autry singing of hard rains gonna fall
say that nobody can sing it as good as peter, paul and mary. at the mention
of the president's name, eat a pint of yogurt an' go t' sleep early...
when asked if you're a communist, sing america the beautiful in an italian
accent, beat up nearest street cleaner.

if by any chance you're caught naked in a parked car, quick turn the radio
on full blast an' pretend you're driving. never leave the house without a
jar of peanut butter. do not wear matched socks. when asked to do 100
pushups always smoke a pound of deodorant beforehand. when asked if you're
a capitalist, rip open your shirt, sing buddy can you spare a dime with
your right foot forward an' proceed t' chew up a dollar bill. do not sign
any dotted line. do not fall in trap of criticizing people who do nothing
else but criticize.

do Not create anything, it will be misinterpreted. it will not change.
it will follow you the rest of your life. when asked what you do for a
living, say you laugh for a living. be suspicious of people who say that
if you are not nice t' them, they will commit suicide. when asked if you
care about the world's problems, look deeply into the eyes of he that asks
you, he will not ask you again. when asked if you've spent time in jail,
announce proudly that some of your best friends've asked you that. beware
of bathroom walls that've not been written on.

when told t' look at yourself...never look. when asked t' give your real
name...never give it.
